---
layout: post
title:  "2019-08-22"
date:   2020-08-22 12:12:00 -0700
category: Kingdom Hearts
published: true
---
The worst part about all of this is that I brought this all on myself. 
 
My friend Colin's sister had a PS2 which she did not allow us to play. It was kept in the same room where we'd sleep if I stayed over, so we played on that PS2 a lot. The two games I recall the most vividly are Final Fantasy X and Kingdom Hearts.  Colin and I didn't want her to know that we were using the console, so we never saved anything on the memory card. I played through the intro of Kingdom Hearts at least a dozen times. Getting those stupid fish, failing that shitty race with the terrible platforming, I did it all. Years later, I would come home on vacation and spend time with Colin playing through the games we weren't allowed to play. I put 50 hours into Final Fantasy X, experiencing a genuinely touching story about the obligations that you can place on yourself and the nature of stories. To this day I still think about those themes and how well I remember all of the characters.
 
Then I decided to play Kingdom Hearts.
It turns out it was really much, much worse than I remembered. It felt bad to play, it felt bad to move around, the deeper mechanics are poorly explained at best, and there was the music.
I could've gotten past all of this to drive towards the teen angst I could sense from that one AMV commercial I saw a million times as a kid if it wasn't for the music. 
 
At any given point in any level in the game there is at most a ten second loop of something that sounds like it *could* be a song from the disney world you are in. It never stops. So with every encounter that blocks you from opening a door and with every missed jump, you have to listen to the same grating loop, for hours on end. Replaying these games was a way to spend time with a friend, but I couldn't do it. I shelved it. We played Mother 3 instead and that was probably one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life.
 
I have a deep need to know details. I almost can't help myself when I see a system that sparks something within me mentally. So when I was shooting the shit with my friend Keith and he mentioned that in Kingdom Hearts there is a character named Xion who is the secret 14th member of Organization XIII, and that her name can be rearranged to be "no 1" or "no. i" as in the imaginary number i. This was because she wasn't a real person and therefore didn't go towards the 13 member limit.

I lost my shit.

It was the dumbest detail I had ever learned, the only time I've ever laughed harder is when I learned about The Gunch. I then needed to learn what the plot of Kingdom Hearts actually was. We went on Youtube to find an explainer, there was nothing comprehensive in any reasonable amount of time. I went home and watched a 3 hour lecture on what the fuck is going on in that game. And then I needed to experience it, what the fuck *was* going on? I wanted to complete my journey from a young age, I'd beat this game I started so many times. That was probably one of the worst decisions I've ever made in my life.