---
layout: post
title:  "Executional Difficulty in Super Smash Bros. Melee"
date:   2019-04-15 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Physical Games
published: false
---

## Executional difficulty in Super Smash Brothers Melee

Super Smash Bros. Melee is easy enough to play with all your friends and hard enough to destroy my wrist tendons for life. At the simplest level, anyone who has ever picked up a controller before can have a fun time with other players. At the highest level, Melee is incredibly difficult to play, missing a button press with a 1/60th of a second window can be the difference between winning and losing. The main reason for this extreme breadth of play experience is the extreme depth of the Executional Difficulty. 

//include the video, how fast is melee
//find a new video

It is really fun to run and jump around in SSBM. The characters move expressively and it is easy to do. As you get more and more involved with trying to play the game well, moving becomes even more fun, but it gets much harder. To move around at a high level requires many hours of practice. 

We are going to go very in-depth on two different techniques, SHFFLing and Wavedashing. SHFFLing requires a lot of inputs that could be made easier. Wavedashing requires highly granular inputs that brings a lot of depth to the technique. To really understand why this is case, we're gonna have to go extremely granular. So for this post we're gonna look at the inputs for SHFFLing  to see the pros and cons of the technique. Next post we'll look at the inputs for wavedashing to see why I think that is a deep mechanic that is worth the Executional Difficulty.

SHFFLing consists of three mechanics done in sequence, Short Hop, Fast Fall, L-Cancel. So let's look at each in order.
//REWORD LEAD-IN SENTENCE

###### Short Hop
There are actually two different ways to jump in SSBM, full hops and short hops. A full hop is the normal, full height jump that occurs when the jump button is pressed for a normal length of time. A short hop is a very short jump that occurs when the jump button is pressed for a very short amount of time. The exact window for the jump input varies by character, but the smallest it can be is 3 frames. For reference, Melee runs at 60 frames per second which means that the jump button needs to be pressed for less than 1/20th of a second.

//gif of hops

It isn't necessarily bad that Short Hops are hard to do. If a designer wants to make a game fast then it might be necessary to have such a small window because there are only so many frames to work with. People who play the characters with 3-frames to short hop tend to have way more trouble than the people who play 4-frame characters. So as a general rule of thumb I'd try to avoid having players make inputs that require 1-3 frames of accuracy without having a great reason.



###### Fast Fall
Fast Falling is a mechanic that occurs every time a character is in the air. If their character is falling, a player can input down and the character will fall faster. This can be done any time, and in any state that isn't hitstun as long as the character is falling. Note however, that the character will *not* fastfall if the down input is entered before the character starts moving downwards. This includes if the down input is held. So if a player attempts to fast fall before they are allowed to, they have to release the down input back to neutral, and then do the down input again.

There are some reasons why a player would want to hold down without fast falling. Maybe they anticipate getting hit and want to get sent downwards. Maybe they want to do a downwards aerial attack without moving fast. However this is a much rarer occurance than somebody just missing the correct input timing to do the technique.

This is a problem that are easily solved by the fact that the gamecube controller has multiple buttons that are duplicates. The X and Y face buttons along with the L and R shoulder buttons both do the same thing as the other. (CLEAN UP SENTENCE) One of those four could have been taken for a fast fall input if they wanted to. Or they could have simply added a buffer system, where if there is a down input within X frames of the character moving down, they fast fall automatically.


The fast fall mechanic is actually fun and interesting. It leads to timing mixups and having to guess what speed your opponent wants to go. It is an incredibly deep yet simple addition to the system, and yet, they did just some stupid stuff



###### L-Cancel
L-canceling is a mechanic that is invisible to casual spectators of Melee. Much like a duck on water, they will never notice the legs furiously moving to keep that duck moving smoothly to avoid getting comboed by Fox McCloud. After a character does a normal (non-b) move in the air, the will enter into the recovery frames just like a move done on the land. If that character lands during the recovery, they will enter into a different state known as "landing lag." The length of landing lag is different for every move. The larger the move, the longer the recovery when landing. However, if right before landing, the player inputs the L or R button, they will perform an L-Cancel. The term L-Cancel originally stood for Lag Cancel, but the lag isn't actually canceled, instead it is cut in half. Note that the L and R buttons also are the inputs for shield, so the press has to be released quickly to avoid entering into that state by accident. 

//can you l-cancel after landing? on landing? or just right before?
///I Think 4 frames before landing
//does l-cancel
//gif of link dair with and without l-cancelling

L-canceling means that for every single aerial move done close to the ground, there is at least one extra input that a person not in the know doesn't see. The only time anyone ever notices the mechanic is when a player misses the input. There is never a reason to not do this input. New players struggle to remember to consistently do it, while veterans forget it exists until they make a mistake. This is the definition of an execution tax.




//can you fast fall during normals and specials?
//can this be done during special fall

###### SHFFL
Short Hops, Fast Falls, and L-Canceling are all mechanics that come into play when a character enters the air. They all have their own various sets of parameters to be cognizant of, but we haven't even gotten to the hard part yet. The next step every competitive player has to do is to combine all three mechanics at once to learn how to SHFFL. SHFFLing is when a player inputs a short hop into a fast fall and then an l-cancel. This will be done simultaneously with an attack, adding yet another input.


It isn't necessarily bad for competitive games to have inputs that are hard to do. Basketball wouldn't necessarily be a better sport if players didn't have to shoot free throws. In many ways, SSBM is balanced by the fact that the players are not robots and do not yet have mechanical hands to do all their inputs. 


Any technique that is hard to do comes with a cost. Every minute a player needs to spend practicing and training to be able to play is a barrier to entry. There are a lot of really fun competitive games that have no player base because they 


I love the movement system of SSBM. I also think it is overly complicated. The Finite State Machine alone has an absolutely absurd number of states. (INCLUDE NUMBER)



