---
layout: post
title:  "Whatever"
date:   2019-04-15 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Kingdom Hearts
published: false
---

I would shoot tetsuya nomura given the opportunity.

That's a lie. I can't blame him for being who he is. 

"You was who you was when you got here" - Jay-Z

I would shoot God if Jay-Z told me to do it. I would shoot God given the opportunity.

Kingdom Hearts is meant to break people. It's an angler fish whose bait is teen angst and shitty outfits. The people at Square Enix saw the wild bullshit Nomura was up to as a character designer and said "yeah, that's our dude." Then they gave him his own game franchise. The 90s were fucking wild. Fuck, they still ask him to design all their clothes. Motherfuckers even brought him in to guest design for The World Ends With You. Like shit, that man is multifaceted. Imagine being so good at designing rave pants and clothes made out of belts that Disney lets you make a game guest starring Donald Duck and Goofy. That's like if I was so good at playing bass in a Ska Rap-Rock group that PBS let me write a book starring Mr. Rogers.

No piece of media has thrown me into despair as many times or as deeply as Kingdom Hearts. It isn't even a heavy piece of media. On the contrary, it is overly hopeful and light and cheery as it grinds away at your soul. Every time you can't open a door because a random boring enemy popped in at the last second to put you into fight mode and all the while a ten second loop of knockoff "Unda the Sea" is playing, just know that it was all intentional. It has to be. It has to be.

The worst part is that I do genuinely  care about the plot. It is so fucking convoluted that I can't help but be fascinated. "What new bullshit will he concoct next?" I wonder to myself. I'm never even in the ballpark of what wild things go down. I've stopped guessing.

So when I say that Kingdom Hearts is the worst game of all time. Know that I mean it. I put in the time to confirm this. It is. And when I say that I think that is on purpose, I don't know if I'm joking or if I believe it. I don't know if I think the world is a better place for Kingdom Hearts existing. It really might not be. But it does exist and I am a man forced and compelled to grapple with it.

