---
layout: post
title:  "Noise Game"
date:   2019-09-29 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Concepts
published: false
---


This post isn't me trying to be deliberately obtuse or obnoxious. These are questions that I am trying to work through. I write out notes like this and generally clean them up to make a coherent post. It seemed more honest to make a messy post about noise than otherwise. It is way scarier to make a messy post than to craft together something that I know for sure is solid. It also seems more honest.


 When I think of noise music I think of Merzbow. Technically he makes what is known as Harsh Noise, but the exact distinctions are not too important.
https://youtu.be/AguPH0XBxdw

something something something John Cage talking about what music is

John Cage said that music and sound were one and the same. Music does not necessarily need to be composed
https://youtu.be/pcHnL7aS64Y

https://youtu.be/gXOIkT1-QWY
Space Art vs Time Art, one and the same according to Cage, what kind of art are games.



What is the concept of noise in game design? We already know what noise music is. The visual equivalent of noise music could be a lot of things, but an easy one to imagine is TV Static.

The functional equivalent of a single note or color in games is the interaction. A game mechanic is a way of incentivizing and encouraging player interaction.


TIMBRE OF NOTE vs CLEANNESS OF NOTE. A computer can generate a clean G Sharp, but it feels different from when a piano plays a GSharp. In games, 





A game can be a space to inhabit. In the same way that sound does not need to be composed to be music, game interactions don't have to be organized to make a game. It is great to have deeply composed games, but what is the functional equivalent of ambient music? Proteus offers a good example of the possibilities.


We know what a noisy game is almost inherently, when there are a million different clashing or unneccesary mechanics it becomes irritating to try to keep them all straight. 
A game can be very busy with the interactions and mechanics it has without being overly noisy, in the same way that a classical composition can have a million parts and melodies. Dark Souls has a wealth of amazingly niche parts. I have extensive notes on the various intricacies of the parry system in 3rd Strike. 

Breath of the Wild has an insane wealth of things to do. The world of hyrule is impossibly vast, and anything that you can see, you can eventually walk to. The number of actions you actually perform is surprisingly limited. 
//include picture of a vista
The context and content of the world is so varied and vast that the mechanical content can be relatively simple. Ironically this puts more pressure on the design of those mechanics because performing those actions needs to be as easy and fun as possible. If it wasn't fun to climb up a cliff, or glide over a landscape, the game would be a complete slog. Breath of the Wild is able to be as clean as it is because it only ever lets the player be Link.

Contrast this with Skyrim. Skyrim is a fun game, but the design is nowhere near as clean or precise as BoTW. Skyrim is incredibly sloppy in how a player interacts with the world. The joy of that game is how it just gives a million various unrelated mechanics that simply exist. Do the armor crafting and the armor enchanting mechanics have game breaking implications? Who cares? If the player wants to break the game they certainly can. If they'd rather spend time roleplaying as a hunter out in the woods trying to trap wolves to survive, why not.


WOULD I CALL SKYRIM A NOISY GAME?
It certainly is a very janky game. I wouldn't call it elegant. Doesn't mean it isn't fun.



CREATING A NOISE GAME

What does a noise game entail? A game is a sum of its parts. These parts can clash in interesting and valid ways, and perhaps this would be appropriate for a game about the clashing of parts. An alternative would be to have all the parts include a large amount of noise. Large amounts of static in the visual space, noise in audio.


If the basic unit we are working with would be a single interaction, should we imply more mechanics that don't exist? SHould we include a lot of mechanics that hold large amounts of value?

How should the player be represented


A game can be a space to inhabit.  In the same way that sound does not need to be composed to be music, game interactions don't have to be organized to make a game. It is great to have deeply composed games, but what is the functional equivalent of noise music?





09WOP aka DAN SWEGMAN PRESENTS NOISE GAME: A GAME


Gucci got a warrent, how the fuck I get supeoned? 
Objection! what's the objection? Your Honor I'm a genius.

Ultimately, I think the equivalent of audio static is a mechanic that exists but has no relation to any other part of a game. If you could artfully connect a bunch of unrelated parts while keeping them separate, you'd have a noise game. If you could  make them all of these various mechanics engaging on their own you'd have a very large amount of noise.
A close equivalent could be considered the WarioWare series. These games are mostly a large set of four second minigames all connected by a scoring system. The only goal is to keep winning the minigames as they appear. The scoring system and aesthetics outside and between the minigames provide a strong structure that keeps the game overall from feeling too busy or hectic. If you removed the outside structure and any instructions the game would suddenly be very noisy.

If you removed any incentive to win the minigames, can it still feel vital to keep going? If you remove any outside structure to the minigames is the whole thing still a game system? Does it fall under the category of Experiential Toy because there is no goal structure? 



If you remove most of the feedback from a game, eventually you'll be left with a screen that you can turn on and off. I don't consider flipping a tv on and off a game, but maybe that's because I'm limited in my thinking.











---

