---
layout: post
title:  "Difficulty Part One"
date:   2019-04-07 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Physical Games
published: false
---

I hate difficulty options in games. Whenever I start a game see a difficulty choice, I abstain. I just choose the medium difficulty and hope that the game was designed around that one option. I get it, designing interactions is super hard, and what any given player will find reasonably difficulty is wildly different. I'm super sympathetic to that problem, I would just rather find a game to be too easy than to be asked to design a game for fun. As a designer I really can't know what skill level or expectations the players of the game are going to have. I just have to trust that I am making a thing that will be a good experience for at least some of the people who touch the game. As a player, I really can't know what level of skill the designer expects me to have and what they consider to be a normal level of difficulty. All this leads to any decision a player is asked to make being a double-blind test of how hard the player thinks the game will be on any given difficulty setting. This doesn't even get into the immersion breaking nature of the option. The game world is never allowed to just exist, it is now the "normal" world or the "hard" world. Some games try to fix this with a million different sliders, this is an accepted idea, especially in strategy games. The idea is that a player can tailor the game be exactly how they want it. The problem here is that I don't want to design another person's game, I do that enough as it is. Difficulty sliders and settings are a way of designers choosing not to solve the problem of challenge for players and asking them to figure it out themselves. Some people do find it fun to fiddle with a game and make it the best it can be for their experience, and I'm not saying that games shouldn't cater to those people. I am saying that games that cater to those people are not catering to me. So how do I want games to handle the issue of differing player skill levels and expectations? For a start, lets look at Dark Souls.

The Dark Souls/Bloodborne/Sekiro series is probably the most popular "hard" game in the modern games landscape. The Dark Souls DLC version of the game was called "Prepare to Die Edition." It is true that the games are difficult for most players. This is especially true if you try to go and beat them without help or knowledge. What the Souls series does especially well in a very sneaky way is to let players choose their own difficulty without even telling them thats what they are doing.  Without ever breaking out of the immersion of the game, people can go out and summon friends to help them with difficult parts. Without ever being told that their choice is lesser, players go and choose a magic build that will let them get through the game much easier. Without ever being stopped from doing so, players can grind for levels as long as they like, there are even some pretty good spots to do so near the start of the game. All of this lets players choose their difficulty settings without ever being asked to design the game. From Software already did the work and the player gets to reap the benefits.

Another game that lets players choose their own difficulty in their own way is Heat Signature. As a game highly inspired by immersive sims, Heat Signature lets players find their own fun and generally tries to get them embroiled in as many shenangins as possible. Instead of the obtuse roundabout way of Dark Souls, Heat Signature just tells the player what difficulty any mission they choose will be. This is framed as the client hiring you laying out the details. The game also tells players exactly what they'll need to prepare for to beat the mission. Then the game does its damndest to entice the player to make mistakes. Tom Francis [wrote about all this][heat-sig], so I won't get too deep into it but the point is that the game is very concious about how hard it is to play at all times.(Side note, Tom Francis is great designer and writer, and [writer about design][Tom-Francis]) 
//include shot of Heat Sig mission select
There is only one thing I dislike about how Heat Signature deals with difficulty, and it is that the game also includes a menu to completely change how the game works. This just loops back into the central problem of being asked to design a game. The option is called a cheat, because it is supposed to be clear that this wasn't intended, but it is still there.

This is also a solution that Celeste came up with. At any point in the game, the player can open the options menu to completely change how their character interacts with the world. This can be used to completely circumvent the difficult platforming that makes up the majority of the gameplay interactions. I like celeste a lot, I understand why the option to edit the game was put in. There are a lot of people who would enjoy being in that world and playing that easier game lets them have that. The story is touching,the art is wonderful, and the music is uplifiting, so experiencing those all together is a powerful thing. I think that overall being given those options made the game better for a lot of people who aren't me. Clearly I still liked the game despite the options menu, but I have an unhealthy obsession with details so I can't ignore that menu all of the time. It doesn't matter that the difficulty menu wasn't intended by Matt Makes Games, it is in the game so it is an option that is readily available to me. I feel like it cheapens my experience in that I instead of getting frustrated at a difficult platforming challenge, I sometimes get frustrated at myself for not just going into the options menu to just beat the thing easily. 

I like the games I play to be monolithic in nature. Something that I approach and engage with on their terms. If a game makes me look at their outside and choose between three doors, I'll just go straight because anything else is a waste of energy. No game can be built to be everything for everyone, but to not have a target audience in mind to design for just cheapens the experience for everyone. 

Next time I'll be writing about overt difficulty settings I do like, and designing games that are intended to be absurdly hard, even for thier target audience. If you want to get in touch with me for any reason, use [Twitter][twitter].


[heat-sig]:https://www.pentadact.com/2017-11-22-heat-signatures-fair-points-update-reacting-to-good-reviews/
[Tom-Francis]: https://www.pentadact.com/
[twitter]: https://www.twitter.com/jxvd