---
layout: post
title:  "FPS"
date:   2019-09-29 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Concepts
published: false
---

There are going to be new Half Life and Bioshock games coming out in the next year or two. We are forced to confront a deep truth, neither game is actually good at telling a story. In the mid 2000s, nobody had accepted that First Person just isn't a good perspective to tell a direct narrative. This is because the player is expected to be embodying the main character. This means that the audience literally can't witness how the main character of the story changes over the course of events. This is a crucial narrative tool eliminated from the jump. The other issue is that games are still very confused over whether or not a player's actions are one to one with the actions of the main character and vice versa. If they player commits atrocities, is it the same as the character doing so? If a game forces a player to do a bad thing to continue, are they responsible? Telling a story is hard enough as it is and FPS games start with both hands tied behind their back. 

With upcoming sequels to both Half Life 2 and Bioshock, we are forced to confront a deep truth. Both of those games aren't good at telling stories. In the mid 2000s, nobody had accept that First Person just isn't a good perspective to tell a story. This is because the player is expected to be embodying a character, but we can't witness how this character changes from an external viewpoint. This is because the player is busy being the character. This means that one of the main tools of narrative storytelling is completely off the table before most games ever start. This is compounded by the fact that there is generally a large amount of confusion over whether or not the player and the character they are embodying are the same thing. Telling a good story is hard enough as it is, but FPS games are starting from a down position.


(FOOTNOTE: this could be solved by simply not making the player the main character, but most games don't want to leave the power fantasy concept just yet)


Bioshock goes as hard as it possibly can into the player character embodyment issue. The narrative gimmick of Bioshock is that the character the player is embodying is a clone who must do everyting they are told to if it is preceded with "would you kindly." I hate the narrative gimmick of Bioshock.

If a player is expected to embody a character, the game probably shouldn't criticize that player just for being that character. The "Would you kindly" bit only works if the player was ever presented with an option to not follow the orders given. Every player has the option to not engage with a game, that's what quitting is.
(FOOTNOTE: This is a Tom Francis concept that he said somewhere.) 
Most games don't acknowledge that the player continuing to play is a choice the player is making. Bioshock tries to position the player and the character in the same place by saying that neither had a choice to not follow the game structure. This is a lie, the player and character are never compelled by anything other than the labryinth the game constructs.

Footnote: Undertale actually deals this problem beautifully in one part of the game where you are asked to constantly reload your save game and it is shown as "determination" to continue. the player and the main character are brought together through that. if the player chose to quit there, then the character did as well.


Half Life runs into the player/character embodyment problem in a different way. Half Life 2 places the player in a position where they embody an extremely important character in the story. The game then never gives the player any agency. This means that the main character also doesn't have any agency. Half Life tried to avoid confronting this problem by never acknowledging the player or the character directly. Instead it tasks them to do incredibly dumb actions and then refuses to talk about it. At one point the player has to get into a prison coffin in the middle of a alien military/government facility that transports them to the president's office, that's just what has to occur for the story to continue.

The player/main character gets talked at constantly, but can never respond. Is the main character mute? That's fine if they are, but like, talk about that, give Gordon some agency. Half Life 2 feels like a fever dream of a story. The player just floats through long levels without really ever understanding what is going on. When presented with an implied city to explore, the actual path is a weird sprawling maze that always spits you out where you need to be. There is no navigation or exploration of space, just trying to claw out of the maze.

Contrast both of these games with Portal, a game made with the exact same tools as Half Life 2, but tells a much better story. The reason for this is that the main character is either a passive participant or doing exactly what the player would want to be doing. The player is never told explicitly that they want to do something, that the character they are embodying is anything other than a direct representation of the player. They are only told that they are supposed to complete some tests and are given no other options.

When the narrative twist occurs, surviving is the same thing as continuing to play the game. What the main character probably wants is the same thing that the game incentivizes. The player wants to move through the game spaces and that is what the game compelles you to do. The lack of implied agency or interaction with other characters frees the game up to tell a simple but well done story.



The First Person perspective just isn't suited for narratives because there is no way to look at the main character or how they interact with others. 
-embodyment issue
-solved by basically avoiding any sort of character interaction
-compounded by the uncanney valley issue.(this is way too late to even bring that one up, maybe make a mini post)
-see you next time



  This is alongside the uncanny valley of games getting closer and to depicting what it is to live in first person but being largely limited to flat screens.






The pure single player FPS game is a style that has largely fallen by the wayside compared to the mid 2000s. There are still games that are made in that space, but they are mostly Triple A releases. This is opposed to a time when it seemed like the default choice for most studios was to make a game where a gun was strapped to a camera and let loose into the world. Despite this, people in the games space still tend to talk about the stories and experiences of playing Half Life 2 and Bioshock in positive terms, as though they were something other than trash.

[twitter]: https://wwww.twitter.com/jxvd
