---
layout: post
title:  "FPS 2"
date:   2019-09-29 12:12:00 -0700
categories: Concepts
published: false
---

What FPS can do well.




The Walking Simulator as a genre also largely avoids the problem of direct character interaction. 

The only FPS that use First Person perspective and try to have character interaction are Immersive Sims or Bethesda Style RPG's. These are also genres that are usually trying to have the player embody a non-specific role. The player is placed in a world and they can choose from a set of options who they think the character they are embodying is.\

DOES THIS HAVE A POINT? 

WRAP IT UP

 



Contrast with Mirror's Edge

Mirror's Edge accepts what it can't do, a literal depiction of a world. So instead it makes an aesthetically gorgeous representation of a city. The color of an object will change in real time to show how Faith sees the world as a place to traverse. 

 lovingly designed textures leads to The City feeling like a real place. This is also helped by the fact that the game is entirely based around physically interacting with the environment, jumping off roofs, climbing up pipes, dropping off scaffolding. 

The story gets told through between level animations that are outside of what the player experiences in first person. When the game is in first person, the story is nonsensical, but the world feels like a subjective space that Faith is looking at. I know who Faith is, despite the pretty bad plotting, the actual words that she says feel real. I get what she wants, I know why I'm running through these weird corporate facilities. It makse sense to me why I'm climbing up a large atrium to grab a sniper rifle to shoot out the engine of a police van that is carrying my framed sister to inevitable death.
